Hello and welcome.
In this lecture we are going to be adding percentage bonuses as well as additive bonuses.
Here in the weapon you in the sword you can see that we've got a weapon damage which is an additive
bonus but also a percentage bonus of 10 percent.
So whatever your base stat was it gets multiplied by 10 percent.
We're gonna see the exact details of that in just a second.
Let's dive in.
So you've often seen percentage modifiers in games.
But how do they work.
And there are lots of different ways for this work.
How do we want them to work in our game.
And what's the importance of order of operations.
This is what I'm aiming to answer with this slide.
So the idea is that you have a base that initially this has going to work in our game at least.
And that base that might be 10 then you get an additive bonus it might be from your weapon you get an
additive bonus of six for example plus six until 10.
You might have another additive bonus maybe from an amulet which gives you plus four to your damage
as well.
So in total after all your additives have been added You have got plus 20 you got 20 damage.
But what about percentages.
So these apply afterwards at least in our game we then say OK so you've got 20 you're going to add eight
percent on top of that.
And then you've got 2 percent.
Now the question here is do we apply these percentages once in time.
So do we say OK what's 8 percent of 20 and add that on and then what's 2 percent of that and add that
on or do we add the percentages first.
Now I think that adding the percentages first makes a lot more sense to game play as you might choose
to do it differently.
But in my case what I'm going to do is add up these percentages to say that we have a total percentage
bonus of 10 percent.
Now that's different to if we had just applied the percentages one after the other.
And then we apply the percentages.
Now if you understand the mass behind this this will be obvious to you first some of it won't be so
obvious.
The important thing to note is the order in which we're doing this first we're adding the percentages
rather than applying the percentages sequentially.
And what this means is that we're adding 10 percent of 20 on top of 20 and that basically means that
it is 2.
So we're adding two on top that's 22.
Now notice that we're adding it on top.
We're not saying take 10 percent of 20 because 10 percent or 20 is just 2.
That would be a really rubbish modifier.
What we're really doing here is we're multiplying it by 110 percent.
If you like we're gonna say give me one hundred and ten percent of your damage.
And that's what it's doing 110 percent of 20 is 22.
So let's replicate this calculation in our get stacked.
So what we're saying is the first thing we do is we do an additive stuff so that's already happening.
Right to make this even clearer what I'm gonna do is I'm going to take this bit where we calculate the
base damage and I'm going to pull that out into a separate method.
So I'm going to extract method call it's what shall we say get base stat like so.
So what we've got is the base stat plus the additive modifiers the sum of all the additive modifiers
and then we want to multiply that by the percentage turned into a fraction.
We temp sensors into a fraction by dividing them by 100.
So we take this value doing the addition first then we do a multiplication by a percentage.
So it's going to be get percentage modifier and it's gonna be for a particular stat again.
But remember that if we get the percentage modify it's going to be something like 10 percent.
And as I said we really want to be multiplying by 110 percent and we want that as a fraction which is
one point one.
So to do that we say one plus all of this percentage stuff.
And what is the percentage stuff is going to have to be divided by 100 in order for it to be a fraction.
So say for example they get percentage modifier came back as 10 we divide that by 100 that gives us
point 1.
We add it to 1.
It gets us one point one so we're multiplying by one point one which is exactly what we'd want multiplied
by one point one times twenty gives us 22 which is exactly what we need.
So we're going to put this in brackets to make sure the addition the plus one happens first because
generally speaking you have your multiplications will happen first.
So we want to make sure they addition to 1 happens first and then we are going to control dots to generate
this method and we're going to just move the get percentage modifier underneath the additive is going
to be your challenge to fill that out.
The next part of the puzzle I want to fill in is adding to our I am modifier provider to now also return
percentage modifiers.
So we're gonna have an eye enumerable again of type floats.
She's gonna give us the percentage modifies this time and it's just going to be get percentage more
years plural and I'm not sure why I didn't go plural with get additive modifier.
Let's go and rename that should be plural too.
So get additive modifiers and get percentage modifiers because it is after all returning a list.
So it's gonna get it for a particular stat and if we want to implement that in fighter we're going to
need to get a percentage modify from somewhere so I'm going to open up the weapons c s script and we're
going to do this let's see we've got damage.
So if in our serialized ball as well as damage I'm going to just duplicate damage and have a weapon
or just kind of call it because it is a weapon percentage bonus like so and we'll start off with zero
by default but we can change that over in a particular weapon for example I'm going to have our sword
be multiplicative damage based on everything else that you've got equipped.
So we've got get damaged.
Go get range gigahertz add another public gets it's gonna be floats and gets and this time it is going
to be percentage bonus.
And that's what we're going to return so return percentage bonus from our serialized fields.
So your challenge is going to be to add a percentage modifier and fill in the blanks.
So you're going to fill out the get percentage modifier that is the sum of all the percentage modifiers
in base stat and you're also going to implement get percentage modify in your fighter the rest of that
interface.
So pause the video and have a go at this challenge.
Welcome back.
So first of all this.
Get percentage modify and base stats.
Let's have a stab at that.
In fact it's gonna look pretty much identical to the get additive modifier except this time we are going
to be calling instead of get additive modify going to call get percentage modifiers instead.
And we're going to be totaling up and then returning.
Notice it is implemented as an int we actually want this total to be afloat.
So that should be fine.
Yep.
Totaling up as a float.
And then let's see infighter.
We need to go ahead and implement also I modify provider.
So let's control dot that implement the interface and scroll on down where we are going to be doing
the get percentage modifiers like so I'm going to be putting it right underneath the implementation
of additive modifiers and in exactly the same way we are going to be checking the if statement of the
damage check that it's damage and then we're going to go from the current weapon to get the percentage
bonus for the current weapon instead.
So that should fill it out nicely.
And finally to test we have to go over to a weapon in my case it's gonna be the sword and we need to
add a percentage bonus so at the moment we've got zero as a percentage bonus.
I'm going to add a nice hefty I don't know let's say a 10 percent bonus here.
So what would I expect my calculation to work out.
As so we've got our weapon damage of 10 initially if my initial level is 1 then my damage is going to
be 8.
So total 18 damage plus our 10 percent bonus which is going to make it fractional damage.
Actually it's going to be about nineteen point eight.
So let's see if that is what is going to work out as I'm gonna go and play go to my sword and go and
hit this enemy and see what damage is being taken.
Yep.
Nineteen point eight.
So you can see that the percentage damage is indeed working and hopefully now if we go and attack somebody
else that actual percentage will have increased because a bass damage has increased as well.
Naturally in this case I got trance but if you try it out for yourself you'd find that it did.
Now the actual reason that I got trounced was because the enemies are getting their modifiers as well
as us.
Now in my case I actually think we don't need that.
The reason that we want modifies is mostly for our player and the enemies it's going to be okay if they
just use their base stat.
It's gonna be easier for you to tweak as your game designer hat on so it's gonna be easier for you to
tweak when you have your game designer hat on.
So what I'm gonna do is go over to base that and I'm going to introduce a new serialized field and in
this particular serialized field it's going to be a boolean that says should use modifiers and basically
by default we shouldn't use modifiers only the player will and they will overwrite that in their prefab.
So what we do is when we do get adaptive modifiers we are going to say hang on a second should we actually
be using modify as a tool.
And if we should not be using modifiers so put an exclamation point unfit then we instantly just return
zero.
There is no modifier for people who don't use modifiers.
Makes sense right.
And we're going to do exactly the same thing in the percentage.
No percentage modifies either.
If you don't use modifiers so then what I'm gonna do is I'm gonna go and find our player pretty fab
over here and open up the player prefab and then scroll on down to the correct component which should
be our base stats and just tick the box should use modifier.
So now what should happen is I shouldn't get so easily trounced because all these folks that have got
weapons won't.
We'll only be doing that base damage they won't be adding the modifier of their weapon on top of things.
So now you can see the damage I did was nineteen point eight I took less damage this time and these
archers shouldn't be doing as much damage as I would with the same weapons because they're just using
their base stats and you can see that the damage the enemy took was 22 so you can see it's really starting
to amount to something the fact that my base damage is going up plus this multiplicative damage from
my sword means that the sword has got some longevity I don't need to go and find a level 2 sword because
the benefit I'm getting from it continues to grow.
Think of it like this.
If my base damage was 10 at level 1 but at level 10 it's 100 then a sword that gave me a bonus of say
5 which was great at Level 1 is suddenly absolutely puny when I'm at level 10 and I've got 100 damage
whereas some a sword gives me 10 percent damage is still just as good at level 10 as it was at level
1.
So you can use this to give your item some items longevity and other line items things that you just
need to discard.
Once you have a bronze sword you don't need that once your level 10 you want a silver sword or whatever.
Something that is actually a decent sword I know and adamantium sword whatever it is.
So we've got lots of tools for game design now and we need to actually go and tweak our progression
so Rick is gonna do a video on that for you in the next lecture.